your suffering will change you suffering
will change you
not just in ways you can anticipate but
in ways that you cannot anticipate and
I've seen that again and again in the
study of politics in the study of
extreme politics to cut to the chase
what I in university before September
11th 2001 before Stemper 11th
I studied politics in the Muslim world
and you saw all the time there would be
guys who at one stage of their career
were relatively moderate relatively
pragmatic and then they got snatched off
the street put into a ghost house
tortured and when they came out their
perspective on the world was different
it's not a slippery slope the role of
violence and again doesn't necessarily
make people bitter but it changes people
in ways they can't anticipate themselves
if you think the level of hostility and
backstabbing and suspicion and hatred
that we have within veganism now is bad
I can imagine it getting worse I think
when you mix terrorism into what's
already a bad situation I can imagine it
getting worse but I've studied political
history
I can imagine veganism being less like a
high school prom and more like the IRA
and I want to stop that from happening
but I know that there are people and
I've met and spoke to people who want
veganism to move towards violence or
they personally want to join groups that
use violence precisely because they feel
that violence will discipline their
fellow vegans that violence will bring a
form of seriousness and earnestness to
the movement or to their their group
their cell within the movement certain
groups of individuals who will not
listen to reason and for that you need
violence they want the secrecy and
seriousness and self-discipline that
violence will bring that the fear of
state repression will bring they want
the simplicity and clarity of purpose
that hostility towards the government
will bring whether they're in England or
in the United States or Canada I
understand that emotionally and
intellectually I understand that but I'm
here to tell you sincerely that you're
wrong and you're not just wrong because
getting on that path will put you in a
cage will put you in prison you're wrong
in your means in your motives in the
ends that you're going to warrants
you're wrong in the way that you're
going to transform the activist group
you're a part of the type of hostility
suspicion etc I've already described and
you're wrong because you don't know how
suffering will change you you don't you
think you're not a killer but you could
be you could become one you think you're
someone who won't rat out your friend to
the cops but you could be you could
become that person
or you think you wouldn't kill someone
who's currently your friend because they
ratted you out to the cops or they
ratted out another member of your
activist group the cops but you could be
you don't know how suffering will change
one of the turning points in history
this YouTube channel was when I pointed
the finger clearly and directly at
another vegan activist well-known vegan
activist from Detroit Gary Yourofsky and
said this is terrorism what he's calling
for his violence legally speaking it's
terrorism and it's not acceptable
and I'm not gonna make excuses for it
and neither should you there are
definitely people who are still in the
audience today watching who first
discovered this channel and first
figured out really who I was and what it
was all about at that moment when I
pointed the finger at Gary Yourofsky and
I had quotations from Gary Yourofsky to
back up those allegations that were as
plain as day I'm not gonna put the
quotation of this video because if
you've been watching this channel you've
already heard some 10 times over but I
had a quotation of Gary Yourofsky for
example of him saying out of his own
mouth that he felt that the ALS a
terrorist organization that the ALS were
not violent enough played that clip many
times I had a clip of him directly
saying that he thought the time would
soon come when people would actually be
using guns really carrying out violent
terrorist activity in slaughterhouses in
the name veganism even when the message
was that clear the vast majority of
vegans the bastard people who saw those
YouTube videos both on my channel and
where they first appeared with Gary
Yourofsky speaking from his own
perspective the vast majority of vegans
just didn't see the problem with it I've
got so many messages people saying wow I
heard that before and somehow somehow
the excuse making mechanism in my mind
was just so strong that I didn't really
see the problem with it and that's
exactly what I want to draw your
attention to here
the problem is not forms of terrorism
that openly and overtly declare
themselves as such the problem is the
way in which
individual people and a whole movement
engages in or indulges in the excuse
making mentality step by step like the
so called boiling frog syndrome people
become accustomed to certain
justifications certain rationalizations
certain assumptions they maybe even
redefine what the word violence means
what is and what isn't violence that was
part of your off skis game too they
define what activism means that defines
what their objectives are they define
what sacrifices they want to make in
such a way that not only is a minority
of the movement drawn into outright
terrorist but what's worse the majority
of the movement is implicated in the
majority of people are discredited by it
the majority of people in the movement
who are doubtless are not terrorists and
don't think of themselves as supporting
terrorists they nevertheless step by
small step end up creating a kind of
smokescreen for the worst elements of
the movement to act out their
revolutionary fantasies so in this video
I'm going to talk about two examples
that are certainly much much less
obvious than Gary Yourofsky
directly advocating for violence Gary
Yourofsky directly saying the AL F is
not found enough but they're all the
more important to deal with not despite
that reason but because
[Music]
[Applause]
you think this is a minor thing but it's
not you think that police keeping the
peace peace order and good government
you think that's a minor thing but it's
not you think that the difference
between having a social movement where
nobody is afraid of the police and a
social movement where everybody is
afraid of the police where everyone is
afraid that they're going to be ratted
out to the police because everyone's
implicated in illegal activity you think
that's a smaller subtle difference it's
not alright and these are the kinds of
presentations of
ideas that are so subtle I mean what
she's calling for here doesn't sound
anything like terrorism there's a second
example wanna bring in here I'll come
back to Aaron Janis real quick but you
know there was a youtuber here he's a
critic of what's going on in the
movement the good bad and the ugly and
he made this case that sounds so
appealing
he made this case for extending
disruption to disrupt the supply chain
that's how he put it to to directly
tackling you know like specific
slaughterhouses you know the animals
being shipped to the slaughterhouses and
being shipped from the slaughterhouses
after they've been they've been killed
and so on that you know if you could
just set up these disruptions to the
supply chain in a focused way you know
in illegal and slightly violent way that
you know that that like somehow you'd
cause you'd cause the price of pork to
go way up in a particular City because
these disruptions you're messing up
you're messing up the industry yeah yeah
yeah but you know what that's not all
your messing up you're putting yourself
in a situation where now the police are
not your friends they're your enemies
and then we're people within the
movement each one of us is hostile to
and afraid of the others can I trust you
can you trust me because you all know
that what you're doing is illegal you're
implicated in something illegal and then
step by step you know that experience
and that sorrow and that isolation it
changes people and they may not have
started out advocating terrorism they
may have started out just advocating
crimes against property and disruption
and disrupting the supply chain and so
on but guess guess where it takes you
and guess where it takes where it takes
the whole movement I'm serious here you
may think it's cute and it's harmless
for Aaron Janis to endorse the strategy
of playing a sound reporting of pigs
screaming while they're actually playing
that at a high enough volume that it
ruins everybody's day in the
neighborhood
that all the houses in that neighborhood
nobody can sleep for nobody's kids can
play in the backyard because there's
this horrible noise playing of pigs
being executed
would you um will you agree that that's
a good tactic for any ideology other
than your own would you make that excuse
for any cause any political organization
that that you do not happen to
sympathize with that you're not a
partisan for hey she you know what um
you may feel you may viscerally feel the
way Erin Janice does you may be willing
to weep and scream about this
you may feel hey there are lives on the
line there are people dying you know
what not the only cause that's true of
how would you feel if you were walking
through a Jewish community and there
were anti-israel protestors whether they
were pro palestinian or pro syrian or
something and these people wanted to
play at deafening volume play at a high
high volume sam recordings of bullets
going off and bombs going off and people
screaming and people dying that was
their form of protest there were maybe
in front of a synagogue or in the middle
of a jewish neighborhood this is what
they wanted to do to shock people using
exactly the same reasoning erin genesis
there were you could you could quote
whatever janice said verbatim and just
replace a few nouns and have a
justification for this right what how
about the opposite what if it was a
group of pro-israel protesters in a
muslim neighborhood what if it was a
group of pro-israel protesters in front
of one of those one of those apartment
buildings in toronto there were many one
of those apartment buildings that's all
palestinians you know it's not quite a
whole neighborhood but still or in front
of a mosque and they want to play the
audio recording of the the sorrow and
the misery and people screaming and
dying they have an audio recording of
palestinians Palestinian terrorists
bombing shooting and killing Jews in
Israel they want to shock people with
that suffering are you comfortable with
that tactic no I mean the type of excuse
making mentality going on here is
exactly the same as a Christian who will
make elaborate excuses for what's wrong
with the Bible
they'll make excuses for slavery in the
Bible they'll make excuses broken at the
incoherent things that don't make sense
about you just try to stop them and ask
why is it you only make these excuses
for this one book you'll do this for the
Bible but you won't make the same
excuses for the Quran from us you won't
make the same excuses for Hinduism or
Buddhism you're capable of seeing this
as something wrong or bad when it's not
your religion when it's someone else's
religion you're capable of seeing what's
really wrong with this kind of activism
when it's Muslims protesting against
Jews or Jews protest against Muslims but
you can't see what's wrong with it when
it's you when it's your beliefs when
it's your own idea hoji you can't have
that detachment and sympathy and
analysis you can't appreciate that what
that police officer was doing was 100%
correct that he was keeping the peace
that the question really is how can we
all live in a society together where we
have profoundly contrasting and
conflicting interests where some of us
feel this is a crisis this is an
emergency
some of us want to shake others out of
their indifference
you know vegans are not the only ones
these tactics people are endorsing okay
so let's say you let's say you endorse
disruption you endorse disruption of the
supply chain
don't quit contrast there would that be
a good tactic if what you're trying to
do long term is create a society in
which nobody smokes cigarettes when you
endorse disruption of the supply chain
or outright terrorism against you know
the trucks that bring the tobacco back
and forth from the tobacco farm to the
factory or whatever and then from the
fabulousity
would you try to disrupt the tobacco
industry so that like temporarily the
price of cigarettes goes up and I guess
the newspapers would all be complaining
gee there are these anti tobacco
activists engaging in illegal methods
that are screwing up the industry would
you endorse that just think through the
next steps on a human level then the
police become your enemies you know
please get involved what you're doing is
criminal
organization becomes paranoid same way
the IRA was most people remembers the
IRA
it's the Irish liberation movement Irish
terrorist movement you know they weren't
afraid of the cops they were terrified
all the time other people inside the
organization that's kind of fear they
all live with the brutalization movement
because you're because you're engaging
this but ultimately also that the type
of suasion you're using is irrelevant to
what it is you want to achieve what are
these people trying to abolish
cigarettes what do they want to achieve
they want other people to do the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
they want other people to get informed
and get motivated to quit smoking they
don't want to just temporarily raise the
price of of cigarettes and antagonize
the whole of society against them
including the legal system that's not
ultimately what you want to do see anti
tobacco activists ultimately they want
the government to adopt laws and and
public education programs that will
really tell people hey hey you've got to
quit smoking that'll inform children and
schools don't use tobacco don't use
cigarettes this is what vegans want also
guys I'm sorry if you can't follow the
argument or what vegans want is for
schools to stop serving bacon and stop
serving hot dogs you want schools to
educate children that no milk is not
healthy eggs are not healthy in the past
we thought these things were healthy and
just now progress of science we know
they're not we want schools to educate
children hey you know what in the past
we thought hunting animals meant that
you were brave and strong and today we
really have to change our mindset that
raising millions of animals in captivity
and torturing them to death this is not
for the good of society it's not for the
good of our health it's not for the good
of anything we want public outreach and
education we want public policies and
yes you're ultimately in the same way
that the final end goal of the anti
tobacco activists probably is to make
cigarettes completely illegal even if
it's 300 years from now probably yeah
sure you know what the ultimate fantasy
of the vegans is that we convinced the
government to make leather illegal to
make veal illegal step-by-step for meat
and dairy to become illegal or so
strongly to score
urged by you know punitive taxes and
what have you that they really become
something marginalized in despising
sight
how could you possibly get there for
anti tobacco activism or for say
anti-alcohol activism or for vegan and
how could you possibly get there
through violent disruption of the supply
chain it's so stupid and it sounds good
but it's a smokescreen over terrorism
this is step by step what leads people
into terrorism
how about Catholics who are pro-life who
want to protest against abortions do you
think they start off with the mentality
that what they're gonna do is terrorism
no they go into it step by step in this
same way they think through a
rationalization just like Aaron Janice
is doing here just like the other guy
did with you know concocting this idea
about disrupting the supply chain they
start off with the redefinition of the
meaning of familiar words violence
doesn't sound like violence anymore when
you call it disruption things that are
illegal come to be justified again and
again because after all animals are
dying people are dying these languages
used created us versus them you know
that cottony and struggle which Aaron
Janice is doing there also step by step
people come up with justifications they
get involved in illegal activity they
say oh it's not it's not violence
against people quote unquote
it's just violence against property
right that's what Gary Yourofsky is
always preaching it's the baby steps
towards outright terrorism
you know they engage in creating this
smokescreen and sure it's partly to
deceive others but it's also to deceive
themselves and you know step by terrible
step those people who probably started
off with the loftiest of principles
imagine one certainly in their own eyes
they had good
engines those people I mean would you
ever make the excuses for pro-life
activists for anti-abortion activists
would you make excuses for what they're
doing that you might hypothetically be
making already now for vegans engaged in
disruption for vegans engaged in illegal
and violent activities in the name of
veganism I don't think any of us how do
you feel when you walk past pro-life
protesters who are genuinely trying to
disrupt abortion clinics who are trying
to stop people going into hospitals and
going out of hospitals and it's kind of
how do you feel if they're trying to
stop an ambulance going in the back door
all these things they try to stop doc
you know and you know where it leads
you know how step by step those people
and if government repression makes it
worse as I said at the beginning of this
video the one thing you don't know is
how your own suffering will change you
it once you get involved with this kind
of activism once you get involved with
this kind of social scene and this
excuse making once you've already had
your turn doing a hunger strike at the
slaughterhouse once you've had your turn
immersing your arms and liquid concrete
once you've had your turn being arrested
for chaining yourself to machinery once
you've been in a jail a few times for
disrupting the supply chain or for
stealing animals from a farm or a
slaughterhouse that cycle of suffering
you're doing it because you think it's
gonna change the world but much much
sooner than it changes the world it
changes you it changes who you are and
it changes all too rapidly what your
view is of violence how much you're
willing to get your hands dirty even if
it's only to provide a justification for
the sacrifices you've already made
looking back at history there were a lot
of people with good intentions who made
excuses for communism look it's narrow
it down there were so many
well-intentioned left-wing people who
made excuses for the Khmer Rouge in
Cambodia there were so many people who
thought they had pious humanitarian
reasons for making excuses to support
the mass murder of innocent people by
communist regimes including the
communist regime in Cambodia and
afterwards when all the excuse making is
over and done with a few decades look by
a few decades go by and then they can
look back and say wow what we were doing
was creating a smokescreen for violence
we thought we might've even thought of
themselves as peace activists that was
the most common thing with communism
they think they're protesting for peace
but in reality they're providing a
justification for and a smokescreen for
violence there is something similarly
paradoxical going on here within
veganism and normally it's much harder
to see than it is in the case of an
imbecile like Gary Yourofsky pointing
his finger and directly calling for guns
and violence and terrorism most of the
time it's going to be a whole lot harder
to discern certain groups of individuals
who will not listen to reason and for
that you need violence spare me the
[ __ ] adages about violence beginning
violent and doesn't always be good
violence in most cases it actually ends
violent
I didn't even finish high school you
know and I haven't go to university and
I say the same thing Oh bonus yen what
is your malfunction let's get one thing
straight
meatball face but I work alone except
when I work with Ronaldo which is all
the time